[docs-only] Improve dev docs (#9894)
owncloud/ocis: docs/services/general-info/deprecating-variables.md

---
title: "Envvar Deprecation"
date: 2024-08-22T15:41:00+01:00
weight: 20
geekdocRepo: https://github.com/owncloud/ocis
geekdocEditPath: edit/master/docs/services/general-info
geekdocFilePath: deprecating-variables.md
---

{{< toc >}}

## Deprecating Environment Variables

> Sometimes it is necessary to deprecate an environment variable to align the naming with conventions or remove it at all. We therefore added annotations to automate the *documentation* process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes it is necessary to deprecate an environment variable to align the naming with conventions or remove it completely. We therefore added annotations to automate the *documentation* process.
```

The relevant annotations in the envvar struct tag are:

* `deprecationVersion`\
  The release an envvar is announced for deprecation.
* `removalVersion`\
  The version it is finally going to be removed is defined via the mandatory placeholder `%%NEXT_PRODUCTION_VERSION%%`, not an actual version number.
* `deprecationInfo`\

>   The reason why it got deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The reason why it was deprecated.
```

* `deprecationReplacement`\
  Only if it is going to be replaced, not necessary if removed.

{{< hint warning >}}

> During the development cycle, the value for the `removalVersion` must be set to `%%NEXT_PRODUCTION_VERSION%%`.  This placeholder will be removed by the real version number during the production releasing process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the development cycle, the value for the `removalVersion` must be set to `%%NEXT_PRODUCTION_VERSION%%`.  This placeholder will be replaced by the real version number during the production releasing process.
```

{{< /hint >}}

> For the documentation only to show the correct value for the `removalVersion`, our docs helper scripts will automatically generate the correct version to be printed in the documentation. If `%%NEXT_PRODUCTION_VERSION%%` is found in the query, it will be replaced with `next-prod`, else the value found is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the documentation to show the correct value for the `removalVersion`, our docs helper scripts will automatically generate the correct version to be printed in the documentation. If `%%NEXT_PRODUCTION_VERSION%%` is found in the query, it will be replaced with `next-prod`, else the value found is used.
```
